docs/api.md, before:

# API

## Addon options

If your app is using webpack and you want to use css modules, postCss, or Sass, it's possible that you'll need to tell Storybook's webpack how to use them. Below are the options available.

```ts
// From src/preset/types.ts
import type { RuleSetRule } from "webpack";

export interface AddonStylingOptions {
  postCss?: boolean | object;
  sass?: object;
  cssModules?: boolean;
  cssBuildRule?: RuleSetRule;
  scssBuildRule?: RuleSetRule;
}
```

### `options.postCss`

**Required?** false

Setting `options.postCss` to true will enable postCss in your storybook. This will read the
`postcss.config.js` file in the root of your project.

**Using PostCss 8+**? You'll need to share your version of postCss like so:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        postCss: {
          implementation: require("postcss"),
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.sass`

**Required?** false

To use Sass, you'll need to install a few extra dependencies

```shell
# You can replace sass with you preferred sass preprocessor
yarn add -D sass
```

need to share your preferred Sass preprocessor like so:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        sass: {
          // Require your preprocessor
          implementation: require("sass"),
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.less`

**Required?** false

To use Less, you'll need to install a few extra dependencies

```shell
yarn add -D less
```

need to share the Less preprocessor and pass any `lessOptions` you want to use:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        less: {
          // Require your preprocessor
          implementation: require("less"),
          lessOptions: { ... } // Pass options to less-loader
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.cssModules`

**Required?** false

Setting `options.cssModules` to true will give you a basic setup of css modules for your css (and scss if you're using it). If you're looking for something more robust, keep reading 👇

If you'd like to customize your CSS Module configuration, `options.cssModules` can also take an object that takes the same options as webpack's `css-loader` [modules property](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-loader#modules).

### Advanced

If the above options aren't working for you, you likely have a more advanced set up.
In those cases, you can give the addon the webpack rules for css and sass files using
`options.cssBuildRule` and `options.scssBuildRule`.

Example:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        cssBuildRule: {
          test: /\.css$/,
          use: [
            'style-loader',
            {
              loader: 'css-loader',
              options: {...}
            },
            // snipped for brevity
          ]
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

## Decorators

### `withThemeFromJSXProvider`

Takes your provider component, global styles, and theme(s)to wrap your stories in.

```js
import { withThemeFromJSXProvider } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeFromJSXProvider({
    themes: {
      light: lightTheme,
      dark: darkTheme,
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
    Provider: ThemeProvider,
    GlobalStyles: CssBaseline,
  }),
];
```

Available options:

| option       | type                  | required? | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | --------------------- | :-------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes       | `Record<string, any>` |           | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the theme object. If multiple themes are provided, a toolbar item will be added to switch between themes. |
| defaultTheme | `string`              |           | The name of the default theme to use                                                                                                                                                                |
| Provider     |                       |           | The JSX component to provide themes                                                                                                                                                                 |
| GlobalStyles |                       |           | A JSX component containing global css styles.                                                                                                                                                       |

### `withThemeByClassName`

Takes your theme class names to apply your parent element to enable your theme(s).

```js
import { withThemeByClassName } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeByClassName({
    themes: {
      light: "light-theme",
      dark: "dark-theme",
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
  }),
];
```

Available options:

| option         | type                     | required? | Description                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | :-------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes         | `Record<string, string>` |    ✅     | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the theme class name. |
| defaultTheme   | `string`                 |    ✅     | The name of the default theme to use                                                                            |
| parentSelector | `string`                 |           | The selector for the parent element that you want to apply your theme class to. Defaults to "html"              |

### `withThemeByDataAttribute`

Takes your theme names and data attribute to apply your parent element to enable your theme(s).

```js
import { withThemeByDataAttribute } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeByDataAttribute({
    themes: {
      light: "light",
      dark: "dark",
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
    attributeName: "data-bs-theme",
  }),
];
```

available options:

| option         | type                     | required? | Description                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | :-------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes         | `Record<string, string>` |    ✅     | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the data attribute value. |
| defaultTheme   | `string`                 |    ✅     | The name of the default theme to use                                                                                |
| parentSelector | `string`                 |           | The selector for the parent element that you want to apply your theme class to. Defaults to "html"                  |
| attributeName  | `string`                 |           | The name of the data attribute to set on the parent element for your theme(s). Defaults to "data-theme"             |

## Writing a custom decorator

If none of these decorators work for your library there is still hope. We've provided a collection of helper functions to get access to the theme toggling state so that you can create a decorator of your own.

### `pluckThemeFromContext`

Pulls the selected theme from storybook's global state.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { pluckThemeFromContext } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator =
  ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) =>
  (storyFn, context) => {
    const selectedTheme = pluckThemeFromContext(context);

    // Snipped
  };
```

### `useThemeParameters`

Returns the theme parameters for this addon.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { useThemeParameters } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator =
  ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) =>
  (storyFn, context) => {
    const { themeOverride } = useThemeParameters();

    // Snipped
  };
```

### `initializeThemeState`

Used to register the themes and defaultTheme with the addon state.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { initializeThemeState } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator = ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) => {
  initializeThemeState(Object.keys(themes), defaultTheme);

  return (storyFn, context) => {
    // Snipped
  };
};
```

### Putting it all together

Let's use Vuetify as an example. Vuetify uses it's own global state to know which theme to render. To build a custom decorator to accommodate this method we'll need to do the following

```js
// .storybook/withVeutifyTheme.decorator.js

import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
import { useTheme } from "vuetify";

const { initializeThemeState, pluckThemeFromContext, useThemeParameters } =
  DecoratorHelpers;

export const withVuetifyTheme = ({ themes, defaultTheme }) => {
  initializeThemeState(Object.keys(themes), defaultTheme);

  return (story, context) => {
    const selectedTheme = pluckThemeFromContext(context);
    const { themeOverride } = useThemeParameters();

    const selected = themeOverride || selectedTheme || defaultTheme;

    return {
      components: { story },
      setup() {
        const theme = useTheme();

        theme.global.name.value = selected;

        return {
          theme,
        };
      },
      template: `<v-app><story /></v-app>`,
    };
  };
};
```

This can then be provided to Storybook in `.storybook/preview.js`:

```js
// .storybook/preview.js

import { setup } from "@storybook/vue3";
import { registerPlugins } from "../src/plugins";
import { withVuetifyTheme } from "./withVuetifyTheme.decorator";

setup((app) => {
  registerPlugins(app);
});

/* snipped for brevity */

export const decorators = [
  withVuetifyTheme({
    themes: {
      light: "light",
      dark: "dark",
      customTheme: "myCustomTheme",
    },
    defaultTheme: "customTheme", // The key of your default theme
  }),
];
```

Commit message:

feat: configure css-loader options (#61)
Co-authored-by: Jeffrey <jeffrey@jeffreyzutt.nl>

docs/api.md, after:

# API

## Addon options

If your app is using webpack and you want to use css modules, postCss, or Sass, it's possible that you'll need to tell Storybook's webpack how to use them. Below are the options available.

```ts
// From src/preset/types.ts
import type { RuleSetRule } from "webpack";

export interface AddonStylingOptions {
  postCss?: boolean | object;
  sass?: object;
  cssModules?: boolean;
  cssBuildRule?: RuleSetRule;
  scssBuildRule?: RuleSetRule;
}
```

### `options.postCss`

**Required?** false

Setting `options.postCss` to true will enable postCss in your storybook. This will read the
`postcss.config.js` file in the root of your project.

**Using PostCss 8+**? You'll need to share your version of postCss like so:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        postCss: {
          implementation: require("postcss"),
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.sass`

**Required?** false

To use Sass, you'll need to install a few extra dependencies

```shell
# You can replace sass with you preferred sass preprocessor
yarn add -D sass
```

need to share your preferred Sass preprocessor like so:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        sass: {
          // Require your preprocessor
          implementation: require("sass"),
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.less`

**Required?** false

To use Less, you'll need to install a few extra dependencies

```shell
yarn add -D less
```

need to share the Less preprocessor and pass any `lessOptions` you want to use:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        less: {
          // Require your preprocessor
          implementation: require("less"),
          lessOptions: { ... } // Pass options to less-loader
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

### `options.cssModules`

**Required?** false

Setting `options.cssModules` to true will give you a basic setup of css modules for your css (and scss if you're using it). If you're looking for something more robust, keep reading 👇

If you'd like to customize your CSS Module configuration, `options.cssModules` can also take an object that takes the same options as webpack's `css-loader` [modules property](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-loader#modules).

### `options.css`

**Required?** false

If you'd like to customize your CSS-loader configuration, `options.css` can take an object that takes the same options as [css-loader](https://www.npmjs.com/package/css-loader#options).

### Advanced

If the above options aren't working for you, you likely have a more advanced set up.
In those cases, you can give the addon the webpack rules for css and sass files using
`options.cssBuildRule` and `options.scssBuildRule`.

Example:

```js
module.exports = {
  stories: [
    "../stories/**/*.stories.mdx",
    "../stories/**/*.stories.@(js|jsx|ts|tsx)",
  ],
  addons: [
    "@storybook/addon-essentials",
    {
      name: "@storybook/addon-styling",
      options: {
        cssBuildRule: {
          test: /\.css$/,
          use: [
            'style-loader',
            {
              loader: 'css-loader',
              options: {...}
            },
            // snipped for brevity
          ]
        },
      },
    },
  ],
};
```

## Decorators

### `withThemeFromJSXProvider`

Takes your provider component, global styles, and theme(s)to wrap your stories in.

```js
import { withThemeFromJSXProvider } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeFromJSXProvider({
    themes: {
      light: lightTheme,
      dark: darkTheme,
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
    Provider: ThemeProvider,
    GlobalStyles: CssBaseline,
  }),
];
```

Available options:

| option       | type                  | required? | Description                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | --------------------- | :-------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes       | `Record<string, any>` |           | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the theme object. If multiple themes are provided, a toolbar item will be added to switch between themes. |
| defaultTheme | `string`              |           | The name of the default theme to use                                                                                                                                                                |
| Provider     |                       |           | The JSX component to provide themes                                                                                                                                                                 |
| GlobalStyles |                       |           | A JSX component containing global css styles.                                                                                                                                                       |

### `withThemeByClassName`

Takes your theme class names to apply your parent element to enable your theme(s).

```js
import { withThemeByClassName } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeByClassName({
    themes: {
      light: "light-theme",
      dark: "dark-theme",
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
  }),
];
```

Available options:

| option         | type                     | required? | Description                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | :-------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes         | `Record<string, string>` |    ✅     | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the theme class name. |
| defaultTheme   | `string`                 |    ✅     | The name of the default theme to use                                                                            |
| parentSelector | `string`                 |           | The selector for the parent element that you want to apply your theme class to. Defaults to "html"              |

### `withThemeByDataAttribute`

Takes your theme names and data attribute to apply your parent element to enable your theme(s).

```js
import { withThemeByDataAttribute } from "@storybook/addon-styling";

export const decorators = [
  withThemeByDataAttribute({
    themes: {
      light: "light",
      dark: "dark",
    },
    defaultTheme: "light",
    attributeName: "data-bs-theme",
  }),
];
```

available options:

| option         | type                     | required? | Description                                                                                                         |
| -------------- | ------------------------ | :-------: | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| themes         | `Record<string, string>` |    ✅     | An object of theme configurations where the key is the name of the theme and the value is the data attribute value. |
| defaultTheme   | `string`                 |    ✅     | The name of the default theme to use                                                                                |
| parentSelector | `string`                 |           | The selector for the parent element that you want to apply your theme class to. Defaults to "html"                  |
| attributeName  | `string`                 |           | The name of the data attribute to set on the parent element for your theme(s). Defaults to "data-theme"             |

## Writing a custom decorator

If none of these decorators work for your library there is still hope. We've provided a collection of helper functions to get access to the theme toggling state so that you can create a decorator of your own.

### `pluckThemeFromContext`

Pulls the selected theme from storybook's global state.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { pluckThemeFromContext } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator =
  ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) =>
  (storyFn, context) => {
    const selectedTheme = pluckThemeFromContext(context);

    // Snipped
  };
```

### `useThemeParameters`

Returns the theme parameters for this addon.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { useThemeParameters } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator =
  ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) =>
  (storyFn, context) => {
    const { themeOverride } = useThemeParameters();

    // Snipped
  };
```

### `initializeThemeState`

Used to register the themes and defaultTheme with the addon state.

```js
import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
const { initializeThemeState } = DecoratorHelpers;

export const myCustomDecorator = ({ themes, defaultState, ...rest }) => {
  initializeThemeState(Object.keys(themes), defaultTheme);

  return (storyFn, context) => {
    // Snipped
  };
};
```

### Putting it all together

Let's use Vuetify as an example. Vuetify uses it's own global state to know which theme to render. To build a custom decorator to accommodate this method we'll need to do the following

```js
// .storybook/withVeutifyTheme.decorator.js

import { DecoratorHelpers } from "@storybook/addon-styling";
import { useTheme } from "vuetify";

const { initializeThemeState, pluckThemeFromContext, useThemeParameters } =
  DecoratorHelpers;

export const withVuetifyTheme = ({ themes, defaultTheme }) => {
  initializeThemeState(Object.keys(themes), defaultTheme);

  return (story, context) => {
    const selectedTheme = pluckThemeFromContext(context);
    const { themeOverride } = useThemeParameters();

    const selected = themeOverride || selectedTheme || defaultTheme;

    return {
      components: { story },
      setup() {
        const theme = useTheme();

        theme.global.name.value = selected;

        return {
          theme,
        };
      },
      template: `<v-app><story /></v-app>`,
    };
  };
};
```

This can then be provided to Storybook in `.storybook/preview.js`:

```js
// .storybook/preview.js

import { setup } from "@storybook/vue3";
import { registerPlugins } from "../src/plugins";
import { withVuetifyTheme } from "./withVuetifyTheme.decorator";

setup((app) => {
  registerPlugins(app);
});

/* snipped for brevity */

export const decorators = [
  withVuetifyTheme({
    themes: {
      light: "light",
      dark: "dark",
      customTheme: "myCustomTheme",
    },
    defaultTheme: "customTheme", // The key of your default theme
  }),
];
```
